[Docs] Multiple k8s support (#4586)
skypilot-org/skypilot: docs/source/reference/kubernetes/multi-kubernetes.rst

---------------------------------------------------

To work with multiple Kubernetes clusters, you need to ensure you have the necessary credentials for each cluster.
Check that your local ``~/.kube/config`` file has the credentials for each cluster. For setting up clusters and their credentials,
see :ref:`kubernetes-setup-deploy`.

For example, a ``~/.kube/config`` file may look like this:

.. code-block:: yaml

    apiVersion: v1
    clusters:
    - cluster:
        certificate-authority-data: 
        ...
        server: https://xx.xx.xx.xx:45819
      name: my-h100-cluster
    - cluster:
        certificate-authority-data:
        ...
        server: https://yy.yy.yy.yy:45819
      name: my-tpu-cluster
    contexts:
    - context:
        cluster: my-h100-cluster
        user: my-h100-cluster
      name: my-h100-cluster
    - context:
        cluster: my-tpu-cluster
        namespace: my-namespace
        user: my-tpu-cluster
      name: my-tpu-cluster
    current-context: my-h100-cluster
    ...

In this example, we have two Kubernetes clusters: ``my-h100-cluster`` and ``my-tpu-cluster``, and each Kubernetes cluster has a context for it.

> Point to a Kubernetes Cluster and Launch

Reviewer: As the final check, we have the users run `sky check kubernetes` as a way to verify which contexts are available to SkyPilot.

> Point to a Kubernetes Cluster and Launch

Author: Good point! Updated the doc. PTAL.

by specifying the ``--region`` with the context name for that cluster.

.. code-block:: console

    # Check the GPUs available in a Kubernetes cluster
    $ sky show-gpus --cloud kubernetes --region my-h100-cluster

    Kubernetes GPUs (Context: my-h100-cluster)
    GPU    QTY_PER_NODE            TOTAL_GPUS  TOTAL_FREE_GPUS  
    H100   1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8  8           8                

    Kubernetes per node GPU availability
    NODE_NAME                                 GPU_NAME  TOTAL_GPUS  FREE_GPUS  
    my-h100-cluster-hbzn  H100      8           8
    my-h100-cluster-w5x7  None      0           0

When launching a SkyPilot cluster or task, you can also specify the context name with ``--region`` to launch the cluster or task in.

.. code-block:: console

    $ sky launch --cloud kubernetes --region my-tpu-cluster echo 'Hello World'

.. note::

    When you don't specify a region, SkyPilot will use the current context.

Failover across Multiple Kubernetes Clusters
--------------------------------------------

SkyPilot enables you to failover across multiple Kubernetes clusters. It is useful when you want to launch a task in any of the clusters with available GPUs.

> Different from cloud providers, SkyPilot does not failover through different regions (contexts) by default, because multiple

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike clouds, SkyPilot does not failover through different Kubernetes clusters (regions) by default because each Kubernetes clusters can have a different purpose. 
```

Kubernetes clusters can be for different purposes.

To enable the failover, you can specify the ``kubernetes.allowed_contexts`` in SkyPilot config, ``~/.sky/config.yaml`` (See config YAML spec: :ref:`config-yaml`).

.. code-block:: yaml

    kubernetes:
      allowed_contexts:
        - my-h100-cluster-gke
        - my-h100-cluster-eks

> With this global config, SkyPilot will failover through the Kubernetes clusters in the ``allowed_contexts`` with in the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this global config, SkyPilot will failover through the Kubernetes clusters in the ``allowed_contexts`` in the same
```

order as they are specified.

.. code-block:: console

>     $ sky launch --cloud kubernetes echo 'Hello World'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ sky launch --gpus H100:1 --cloud kubernetes echo 'Hello World'
```

    Considered resources (1 node):
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    CLOUD        INSTANCE           vCPUs   Mem(GB)   ACCELERATORS   REGION/ZONE           COST ($)   CHOSEN   
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Kubernetes   2CPU--8GB--1H100   2       8         H100:1         my-h100-cluster-gke   0.00          ✔     
    Kubernetes   2CPU--8GB--1H100   2       8         H100:1         my-h100-cluster-eks   0.00                
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dynamically Update Kubernetes Clusters to Use
----------------------------------------------

> To see how to dynamically update Kubernetes clusters to use, refer to :ref:`dynamic-kubernetes-contexts-update-policy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can have configure SkyPilot to dynamically fetch Kubernetes cluster configs and enforce restrictions on which clusters are used. Refer to :ref:`dynamic-kubernetes-contexts-update-policy` for more.
```

.. _multi-kubernetes:

> Multi-Kubernetes Clusters

Reviewer: `Multi-Kubernetes Clusters` is a bit confusing; how about any of these:

* Multiple Kubernetes Clusters
* Multi-cluster Kubernetes
* Kubernetes multi-cluster

"Multi-cluster" seems to be a common term: https://www.cncf.io/blog/2021/04/12/simplifying-multi-clusters-in-kubernetes/, https://www.mirantis.com/cloud-native-concepts/getting-started-with-kubernetes/what-is-kubernetes-multi-cluster/, https://www.kubecost.com/kubernetes-multi-cloud/kubernetes-multi-cluster/

Author: I reverted it back to `Multiple Kubernetes Clusters`. The reason for the change was that the `New` badge gets to a new line with this title, but it should be fine, as I feel `Multiple Kubernetes Cluster` has the widest audiance.

=============================

> SkyPilot allows you to manage dev pods, jobs and services across multiple Kubernetes clusters in a single pane of glass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SkyPilot allows you to manage dev pods, jobs and services across multiple Kubernetes clusters through a single pane of glass.
```

You may have multiple Kubernetes clusters for different:

* **Use cases:** e.g., a production cluster and a development/testing cluster.
* **Regions or clouds:** e.g., US and EU regions; or AWS and Lambda clouds.
* **Accelerators:** e.g., NVIDIA H100 cluster and a Google TPU cluster.
* **Configurations:** e.g., a small cluster for a single node and a large cluster for multiple nodes.
* **Kubernetes versions:** e.g., to upgrade a cluster from Kubernetes 1.20 to 1.21, you may create a new Kubernetes cluster to avoid downtime or unexpected errors.

.. image:: /images/multi-kubernetes.svg
    :width: 80%
    :align: center

.. original image: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_NzqS_ccihsQKfbOTewPaH8D496zaHMuh-fvPsPf9y0/edit#slide=id.p

Configuration
-------------

Step 1: Set Up Credentials
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To work with multiple Kubernetes clusters, their credentials must be set up as individual `contexts <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-access-multiple-clusters/>`_ in your local ``~/.kube/config`` file. 

> For deploying new clusters and getting  credentials, see :ref:`kubernetes-setup-deploy`.

Reviewer: The reference renders as `Step 1 - Deploy a Kubernetes Cluster`, which gets confusing since this is supposed to be step 1. Maybe change the reference directly to the deployment page.

```suggestion
For deploying new clusters and getting  credentials, see :ref:`kubernetes-deployment`.
```

For example, a ``~/.kube/config`` file may look like this:

.. code-block:: yaml

    apiVersion: v1
    clusters:
    - cluster:
        certificate-authority-data: 
        ...
        server: https://xx.xx.xx.xx:45819
      name: my-h100-cluster
    - cluster:
        certificate-authority-data:
        ...
        server: https://yy.yy.yy.yy:45819
      name: my-tpu-cluster
    contexts:
    - context:
        cluster: my-h100-cluster
        user: my-h100-cluster
      name: my-h100-cluster
    - context:
        cluster: my-tpu-cluster
        namespace: my-namespace
        user: my-tpu-cluster
      name: my-tpu-cluster
    current-context: my-h100-cluster
    ...

In this example, we have two Kubernetes clusters: ``my-h100-cluster`` and ``my-tpu-cluster``, and each Kubernetes cluster has a context for it.

Step 2: Setup SkyPilot to Access Multiple Kubernetes Clusters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Unlike clouds, SkyPilot does not failover through different Kubernetes clusters (regions) by default because each Kubernetes clusters can have a different purpose.

> By default, SkyPilot only uses the current context in the kubeconfig, e.g., ``current-context: my-h100-cluster`` or you can get the current context with ``kubectl config current-context``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, SkyPilot only uses the context set as the ``current-context`` in the kubeconfig. You can get the current context with ``kubectl config current-context``.
```

order as they are specified.

.. code-block:: console

    $ sky launch --gpus H100 --cloud kubernetes echo 'Hello World'

    Considered resources (1 node):
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    CLOUD        INSTANCE           vCPUs   Mem(GB)   ACCELERATORS   REGION/ZONE           COST ($)   CHOSEN   
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Kubernetes   2CPU--8GB--1H100   2       8         H100:1         my-h100-cluster-gke   0.00          ✔     
    Kubernetes   2CPU--8GB--1H100   2       8         H100:1         my-h100-cluster-eks   0.00                
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Point to a Kubernetes Cluster and Launch
-----------------------------------------

SkyPilot borrows the ``region`` concept from clouds to denote a Kubernetes context. You can point to a Kubernetes cluster
by specifying the ``--region`` with the context name for that cluster.

> .. code-block:: console

Reviewer: Hmm `console` renders the comments in regular colors:
<img width="863" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f09737a5-7a56-42ef-a8c8-b9063fe09d80" />

maybe switch to `bash`: 
```suggestion
.. code-block:: bash
```
